All right.
So now that we have discussed about multiple chaining and how the chaining works until here, but now
we are going to see how we can actually make an parallel chaining instead of the sequence chaining that
we have been doing.
So these are all runnable sequence that we are doing over here.
So by default value chain like this using the pipe operator over here.
These are all basically a runnable sequence operation.
So it's basically running in sequence over here.
But what if we wanted to run these chains in parallel.
So how do we actually achieve that.
Well in order for you to achieve a parallel execution or runnable parallel execution, you need to use
a runnable parallel class.
So I'm going to say a markdown here as a running chains um chains in parallel.
And I'm going to say tick.
And I'm going to add the code over here.
So now I'm going to run these two in parallel for instance.
So let's just go and copy this entire thing over here.
And I'm going to paste it over here.
So what is exactly parallel execution and why do we really need parallel execution.
So for instance, if you're going to have a response coming up from one LM over here, at the moment
we are just using one LM over here and there is nothing but this guy, the chat or LMA with the Q1 2.5
model.
And what if I wanted to do with probably an LMA 3.2 model?
And then if I wanted to run this two LM in parallel, if I wanted to do or get a response from two large
language models in parallel.
So that way you may have an option to get responses in even more better fashion.
So I mean llama and Q1, these are all like general purpose models.
But if you're going to have any model trained for your organization, which are very specific for maybe
for a specific domain, and you have got another large language model which is trained with some other
data set, which is specifically designed for certain domain.
So if you want to get a combination of the response from two domains together, then you can use parallel
execution to get the response out much, much easily and fast manner as well, because they're going
to be running in parallel.
So that is what the parallel execution is all about.
So again, just to demonstrate how that really works.
So you're going to have the.
So let's say if I'm going to get this particular diagram over here I'm going to copy this.
And I'm going to paste it over here.
So instead of getting response from one LM that we are getting.
So let me just put this guy over here, the traceability stuff.
Um, over here I'm going to have one more, uh, a large language model over here, uh, something like
this.
And let me put the arrow there, and I'm going to put an arrow here.
You see that?
Now we're going to have two llms altogether.
And we're going to be getting the response out from these two.
Uh llms.
For our, for our operation that we are doing essentially.
So that is the whole purpose of this particular execution that I'm talking about.
So this way we can run these two, uh, two operations together for one of the requests that I'm trying
to do so that I can get the response from two large language model, and I get the accurate response
that I'm looking for.
So that is something I can do it as well using this, uh, runnable parallels operation.
And this is going to be very, very handy if you're going to be doing two different operations together.
So 1st May be your large language model is good at uh, some domain may be domain A, and maybe your
large language model is good.
Maybe in this particular domain for this large language model domain B.
So if you run both of them in parallel and get the response, you're going to be getting a lot of useful
information for what that you are looking for.
That is one way of doing it or the other way of doing it, or maybe other way of thinking it is if you're
going to be running these two operations in parallel, for instance, one is the getting the summary
and another one is getting the headings.
You can run them in parallel as well and then you can get the response out.
But in this case, because we are relaying on the response from one chain into another chain, maybe
you don't get the response as expected.
I mean, the speed is actually pretty much exactly the same as well, that it's not going to make any
difference.
So just for adding the cherry on the top, I'm just going to create one more loop here.
And I'm going to call this as LM two for that matter.
And I'm going to go to my terminal over here.
And I'm going to use maybe the llama 3.2 latest model, the two GB model.
And I'm going to use this model this time.
And I'm going to be running this model in parallel this time.
So let's see I'm going to go over here and I'm going to first create a parallel or runnable parallel
this time first of all.
So I'm gonna call from a lang chain underscore core Dot.
There is something called as Runnables and I'm going to import this what is called as runnable parallel
this one.
And from this runnable parallel I can now pass two chains.
Uh, and we can create a runnable chains over here.
So this is the first chain.
This is the second chain that we have got.
And now I'm going to pass both the chains in the parallel execution.
So I'm going to just say runnable parallels dot invoke C.
This is what I'm doing over here I'm going to save this one.
And over here for the chain one I'm using the LM over here.
And for the chain two I'm using LM uh as well.
So instead of LM I'm going to use LM two this time.
So let me also run this code because without running this, uh, the operation will not happen over
here.
So I'm going to come down all the way.
So this is LM two.
So the first chain is going to use LM.
And the second chain is going to be using LM two for that matter.
And if I run this code this is going to just fail over here saying that runnable pattern invoke is not
going to happen because you can't really call the invoke method over here.
So all you have to do it is just call this runnable, uh, parallel, uh, over here, um, like this.
And we need to call two chains, right?
Like, uh, so I'm going to say, uh, chain one, uh, is equal to I'm just going to give the name
here like detailed response chain.
And that is going to be chain two, uh, which is going to be probably the heading uh info template,
um, or chain with the heading.
Yeah.
Chain with the heading over here.
These are the two chains that I have got.
And then I actually need to do the, uh, probably this is going to be a parallel, uh, runnable.
Uh, and then over here I'm going to say response is equal to parallel runnable dot.
And then we're going to call this invoke method.
And over here I need to pass the uh env because that is something required.
Uh uh over here.
So I'm going to say envy of I'm going to say local machine.
Right.
And now if I try to run this particular piece of code, it is going to run both the chains in parallel.
But apparently, as I told you before, this chain, even though while I run them in parallel with two
different large language models, they are still dependent on each other because the output of the first
LM is required for the input of the second LM chain.
So the chains are dependent over here, so you don't see the actual parallel execution really happening
over there.
So I mean you really got what I mean, right.
Because see you get the chain one response over here.
And then the chain two response is coming up over here.
But still guess what?
It is really not quite parallel at the moment.
If you want to make really this one parallel, you can't.
You shouldn't be putting a dependency of the chain between both of them.
So that is not going to really be helping over here because you're using two large language models altogether.
So if you want to run them in parallel.
Do not try to, uh, like, mix them all.
Mix them both together.
So let me just see if I'm going to print this particular response over here.
So I'm going to say chain one.
That is the first response that I'm trying to print.
Oops.
Uh, chain one uh, and I need to print uh, probably slash n slash n and then I'll print, uh, chain
two over here.
And let's try to run this again and look at that.
So first chain is going to give me this particular response.
And the second chain there is a heading from this response.
So running the A model the local machine has several advantages but it is not really printing anything
over there.
So that's I mean that particular model that we have got over there is not really giving us any of the,
uh, details at least over here.
But you will notice that this is how you can actually do that over here.
So these are these are the two things which are running in parallel.
But in order for you to clearly demonstrate this parallel execution, instead of doing with the dependency
that we did with the with the execution over here, I actually need to put it put this code over here,
and I'm going to say, what is the advantage of running the a model in local machine.
And then we can ask the same kind of template over here.
Um, but this time I'm going to say in what is the advantage?
What is the advantage of running?
Uh, lm in uh, maybe machine, uh, over here.
So this is going to be a cloud machine, uh, template probably.
And this is going to be a local machine template.
So I'm just going to create like two, uh, templates over here.
Uh, and then this is what exactly I'm trying to pass parse here.
So this is going to be for the first chain.
And there is this cloud machine template which is going to be here.
So I'm not going to depend on any of these uh existing chains over here.
So now we have got two of the chains over here.
And now I'm going to run them both, uh, at this time.
So let's see what's going to happen.
So this is going to be this is going to be local machine chain.
So we have got two chains here.
So local machine chain and the cloud machine chain over here.
So these are going to be running in parallel altogether with two different LMS this time.
And now I can see how this can be printed or maybe invoked over here.
So parallel runnable dot invoke.
So we have the env for the local machine.
And we also need to pass one more.
Uh env.
Uh sorry we need to pass one more uh machine here.
Right.
So that's something that we need to do it as well.
So machine uh is equal to uh is going to be maybe cloud machine.
So it's going to be envy of the local machine.
And for the machine it's going to be cloud machine.
So this is where we are passing the cloud machine.
And for this guy we are passing the local machine over here.
And now both of these are going to be running in parallel for us.
And we will see what is going to basically happen this time.
So if I try running it this time, you see that now there is no dependency on the first chain with the
second chain, but they are running in parallel for us this time.
And because one of them is going to take time and the other one is going to be, uh, doing it faster,
you see that this time it is just 15.1 second, whereas the last time it was taking 19 seconds.
So you see that there is a there is a performance gain this time for us over here.
And also you get the response coming up over here.
So if I go click this text editor, look at that.
Running the AI in the local machine as these uh, some of the common use cases and here are the limitations
and blah blah, blah.
And if I go back to our, uh, actual langschmidt over here, for some reason this has been signed out.
And if I go to our langschmidt over here, look at that.
So this is a runnable parallels this time.
And this runnable parallel has got two chain like chain one and chain two.
And we are passing local machine and cloud machine.
And the first chain is going to give us this particular response.
And that's all coming up for us over here.
Uh which is great.
And look at that.
This is the second chain that we have got and this is the response it is giving.
But it says that the running the AI model in local machine, also known as edge computing, even in
the second chain.
I don't know why that is coming up over there.
So let's just go back, uh, in the code and see what's really going on there.
So if I just go back.
So this is going to be.
Oh, look at that.
I'm actually passing in the chain two as local machine template instead of the cloud machine template.
I'm sorry about that.
That is a problem.
I need to pass the cloud machine template over here instead of the local machine template.
That's the reason why this is happening.
So now let's try to run this and see what's really happening.
I think that is the reason why it is printing both of them as the local machine instead of cloud machine
in any of these.
Look at that.
Now that's been printed over here.
And if I go to the text editor you should see the cloud machine includes these these these these things.
Amazing.
So if I go back to our, um, runnable chain over there.
Look at that.
So this is local machine in cloud.
Machine.
This is chain one and chain two taking advantage of, uh, running local machine, I mean, large language
model in the cloud machine.
And these are the things which is coming up.
So this is how you can see that we can run this, these chains in parallel for two different models,
as you can see over here.
And that is how you get the power of running chains in parallel using the parallel execution.
And that is the that is the whole purpose of this runnable parallel that we have got in the in the long
chain library.